---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Statement of Purpose
date: 2019-04-24
labels:
  - PhD Portfolio
---


This page is for the statement of purpose, as required for the ICS [PhD portfolio](http://www.ics.hawaii.edu/academics/graduate-degree-programs/ph-d-in-ics/#phd-portfolio).


My interest in computers started from elementary school. Much of my childhood was spend in an office building helping with various aspects of my parents workspace. One device in particular perked my curiosity after it was brought into the workspace, the computer. An unusual box that lit up and assisted employees with paperwork. It was truly a mystery how this metalic box was so popular with the office workers and quickly caused the typewriters to be discarded. Within a couple of years a larger variety of programs became available and it was possible to use the computer to learn classroom topics like math and geography; create electronic drawings; see places around the world through electronic encyclopedias and magazines like National Geographic; and also quite important was play computer games. The box became a window to view this world which was inaccessible to me as well as other fantastical world.

Visual technology caught my interest from an early age for its ability to provide the impression of being in places otherwise inaccessible. It was the images in television, movies, and computer programs which created the mirage of visiting those out of reach locations; books and radio weren't able to cast that same illusion. Then, with the advent of the world wide web, computers solidified in my mind as the method of traversing past physical travel limitations. The desire to both visit and contribute to the available electronic universe was a deciding factor in studying computer science. As a visitor, I wanted to learn more about the architecture which made such excursions possible. After seeing the different creations from others, I too wanted to create a domain of my own or at least a medium which others can use to explore the vast electronic expanse.

Much of the media I experienced growing up was designed as a single user experience. Many websites also supported providing elaborate portrayals geared towards a single user. But, it was the less visually engaging connective web technologies (e.g. chat clients, forums, etc) that revealed a missing piece I wanted to pursue. My goals began aligning towards how to build and improve upon the web to assist connecting people over physical limitations. Joining LAVA has given the opportunity to expand my horizons. Since then my goals have expanded towards using web technologies to support multiuser virtual or augmented reality experiences.

Working at LAVA has allowed me to work with a variety of immersive technologies. "Dream big" is the phrase that comes to mind after having the opportunity to work with large and tiled display walls at LAVA. The illusion experienced by a single low resolution computer in my childhood has since been enhanced by systems providing a full view. Included in the work at LAVA was a wide range of projects where highlights including SAGE2, CyberCANOEs, and DynaCOVE. SAGE2 is a web based service to support collaboration and data investigation. It put my knowledge to the test during developement as we investigated the methods and engineered experiences for users. The Destiny-class CyberCANOE is the most recent lineage addition to the long line of virtual reality CAVE systems. A truly immersive system where one's full view is occupied by the virtual environment without wearing a headset. The work on Destiny introduced me to virtual reality development and had influenced my perspective of electronic adventures. DynaCOVE inspected the network capabilities necessary for streaming of 3D environments. DynaCove took a hardware agnostic approach which wanted to support users across the web using a virtual reality, augmented reality, or standard desktop system.

LAVA has a couple grants which I feel benefit by being closely related, where and advantage is being able to use the advancements of another. For example, are three projects in particular DynaCove, HAVEN, and SAGE3 which I feel have great synergy. DynaCOVE was mentioned previously and looks on track for an extension. HAVEN is an augmented reality setup for investigating the effects of clean energy portfolios on Hawaii being considered by the Hawaiian Electric Company. SAGE3 is the successor to SAGE2 where some of planned features will include investigation of virtual reality implementations. Each of them involves using web technologies and providing an experience otherwise impossible without a computer. Between these three projects alone, I forsee ample opportunities to advance my interests providing digital world creation and exploration while using the web to enable collaborative experiences.

